# bevy-rust-gpu

Support code for compiling and using `rust-gpu` shaders for `bevy`.

## `bevy-app` Workspace

Stable rust workspace housing our `bevy` app.

`Cargo.toml` contains custom `[profile.dev]` and `[profile.dev.package."*"]` sections for fast compiles.

`cargo run` after building the `rust-gpu` workspace to preview the generated shader.

### `bevy-rust-gpu` Crate

Bevy library crate, houses support code for defining interfaces to `rust-gpu` entrypoints and using them via material.

### `viewer` Crate

Bevy binary crate, loads an example scene that renders a side-by-side comparison of WGSL and Rust PBR materials.

Uses the workspace root as its asset folder, and hot-reloads `rust-gpu/target/spirv-builder/spirv-unknown-spv1.5/release/deps/shader.spv` via AssetServer.

The shader is loaded into a custom `RustGpuMaterial` material, which composes `StandardMaterial` with type-level entrypoint overrides and value-level shader overrides.

Shader permutations are selected by using the `RustGpuEntryPoint` trait to translate shader defs into an entrypoint name.

In addition, the `shader.spv.json` metadata generated by `rust-gpu` can be loaded as a resource and provided to `RustGpuMaterial` to enable runtime entrypoint validation.

This will defer material loading until metadata is available, and prevent bevy from panicking in case of a missing entrypoint. A warning will be printed, and the material will fall back to the default vertex / fragment shader.

`WgpuLimits::max_storage_buffers_per_shader_stage` is forced to 0 via `WgpuSettings` to ensure a `NO_STORAGE_BUFFER_SUPPORT` environment.

#### Custom Bevy

`viewer` depends on [Shfty/bevy:remove-spv-defs](https://github.com/Shfty/bevy), which is the `v0.9.1` tag patched to prevent rejection of SPIR-V modules when shader defs are present.

## `rust-gpu` Workspace

Nightly rust workspace housing `rust-gpu` crates.

`Cargo.toml` contains the `rust-gpu`-recommended `[profile.*.build-override]` settings to ensure fast shader compiles,

`rust-toolchain` contains the necessary toolchain specification for `rust-gpu`.

`cargo build` to produce `target/spirv-builder/spirv-unknown-spv1.5/release/deps/shader.spv`.

### `bevy-pbr-rust` Crate

Contains a working reimplementation of `bevy_pbr`.

Shader def conditionals are implemented using compile-time trait generics, and entrypoint permutations are generated via macro annotations.

At time of writing, `rust-gpu` only supports read-write access to storage buffers,
which renders it implementation incompatible with the read-only buffers bevy uses to store light and cluster data on supported platforms.

As such, the `viewer` crate is configured to ensure this data is stored in uniforms.

### `bevy-rust-gpu-macros` Crate

Procedural macros for programmatically generating shader entrypoints.

### `shader`

Project-level `rust-gpu` shader crate. Pulls in `bevy-pbr-rust`.

Entrypoints are exported relative to their containing crate using rust module path syntax,
i.e. `mesh::vertex`, `pbr::fragment`.

### `shader-builder` Crate

File-watching shader compilation daemon. Used to recompile the `shader` crate in response to changes in source or permutation files.

## `shared` Directory

Houses dependencies shared by the `shader` and `bevy-app` workspaces

### `shader-glam` Crate

Wrapper crate gating `glam` and `spirv-std::glam` behind cargo features.

Used for writing crates that can be shared between `rust-gpu` and regular `rust`.

### `shader-util` Crate

Contains utility traits for replicating common shading language functions.
